* Automate Your World *                 -*-muse-*-

How to make computers simplify your life.
 by Mark Seaman


**5. Mindless Web Publishing**

Everyone should have a web site.  A simple web site that lets you
share your thoughts and ideas with others is easy to set up.  Once you
get the general stucture in place it is very easy to maintain.

There are many comercial providers out there with either free or
inexpensive hosting capabilities.  Expect to pay no more than $10 per
month to have your own web site.

A web site can be your window to the world.  Write your novel, keep a
journal, share recipees, share photos.  These are all great things to
do.  People find that once they set up a site they get inspired to do
creative things with it.

There are several ways that you can create a web site.  You can build
your own site from scratch.  This takes a lot of effort to learn
enough to be effective.  

Another alternative is for you to use the installable applications
available from your hosting provider.  For example, one of the hosting
providers that I use is Host Gator.  They have a control panel that
lets users install over 50 application programs.

If I want to set up a blog, I would install Word Press and have a blog
fully operational in about five minutes.  This is a professional
program that deals with all of the features that are needed for a
world-class blog.

The third alternative is to get a professional web developer to build
a custom web site for you.  Unless your application is very unique
then you will spend a lot of money for very little value.

Another option is to use a service that is already running on the
web.  These are available to provide a wide range of services.  Just
sign up for an account and begin using the service directly and
immediately. 

This is by far the best alternative.  Someone else is responsible for
keeping the service running.  Your job is to post the desired
content.  The provider also works on security issues to make sure that
all of your data is protected.

If you want to create an online presence you can use one of these
services and be up and running in minutes.  

As you evaluate the cost of different services be sure to add in the
cost of your time.  Spending one extra hour for a "Free" service is
comparable to five months of charges at a paid on.  My experience is
that the dollar cost of internet hosting is free when compared to the
value of my time.
