* Below the Water Line *                 -*-muse-*-

If you are building a ship, the workmanship that you do below the
water line is more important than what goes on above.  The same is
true of software.  Some activities result in direct customer
visibility. Other activities are not clearly visible but have a great
impact on the overall health of the project.

Resist the temptation to ignore the thing that are not readily seen
and appreciated.  If you yield to pressure to concentrate only on the
features of the presentation layer, then you will pay in the end.
Rapid progress up to the point where you project implodes does not
make you a hero.

About half of all your time should be spent on design aspects that are
not clearly seen.  Without doing this your design will become brittle
and impossible to work with.  This involves building unit tests,
automation, and refactoring of the code.  This is the price of
craftsmanship. 

Junior programmers often claim that they are not given permission to
do these important tasks.  So in response they attempt to build a
large building without a secure foundation.  Or with our ship analogy
they claim that the boss would like them to build more of a barge than
a ship.  Why waist all of the time required to build a proper keel
and ballasts?

There is another way to look at this situation. If your boss or
customer only cares about the superstructure, then the only way to
maximize that, is to work on the substructure that will support it.
This is the approach I usually take.  As a professional developer we
are being paid for our judgement in knowing how to build something
that will last.

If you are being pressured to take short cuts then get out now before
the structure comes down.  No short-term benefit is good enough to
create a long-term disaster.  Sometimes you will have to make
short-term compromises to get something running.  But they should be
followed with time of refactoring and testing.

Resist the situation where you are always adding to the technical
debt.  Every month you must pay of more debt than you create.  This is
only responsible and professional.  

