* Why Software Projects Fail *                  -*-muse-*-

The software industry is crowded with failed projects.  You don't have
to look very far to realize that the vast majority of projects to not
deliver what they promise.

This has been true since the beginning of the industry.  But with
better tools, faster project cycles, and global outsourcing, the
situation has become critical.

Software is still very expensive to develop, and customer expectations
are high.  Your company may be betting its future on the next software
development project to be done.  You can't aford for it to fail.

Most projects fail to meet their goals because of uncontrolled scope.
The typical software project starts with a great idea for an
innovative way to meet a new customer need.  As the situation is
analyzed there are other needs discovered and added to the list of
goals.

Projects that deliver value to customers quickly and effectively have
very simple and clear goals.   Projects that lose sight of the
important goals inevitably grow in scope.  Every discussion leads to a
new goal or feature being added to the product.

Over time, this burden of expectations becomes so great that the
project simply collapses under its own weight. This process is the
natural course of events.  It is entropy taking over a project.

The only way to prevent this untimely demise is to practice "Ruthless
Prioritization".  A well run project has a clearly defined set of
goals.  These must be set in priority order and simple enough for
everyone on the project to understand.

All of the work in the project should align with these goals and
everything else should be pruned away.  By excersizing this high
degree of discipline the project can stay on track.  Everyone is
pulling in the same direction.

The project should be reviewed at least once a week to see if enough
progress is being made.  If the end goal is no longer feasible, based
on the current progress, then changes should be made to the project.

These small course corrections may keep your project healthy and
guarantee that you deliver on the expectations.  You can either change
the expectations or the progress being made, but ulimately the two
must match.
