* What should you automate? *                 -*-muse-*-

The answer to this question is simple.  Automate everything that will
save you time over the long run.  This is very unique to the
individual.  Different people spend time on different activities.

Let's walk through a simple process for determining this in your
world.  Sit down with a note pad and make a list of everything that
you did yesterday.  Write down every activity that you did for more
than a half hour at a time.  This list is your big things (at least
for yesterday).

Now list the little things.  Each of your big things contains little
tasks that you must do.  For example, you may have a task that
involves a meeting.  What is actually required to do that may look
more like:

 * figure out a good time to meet
 * schedule the conference room and phone numbers
 * send invitations to participants
 * prepare the agenda
 * think through the discussion
 * host the meeting
 * send out follow up notes
 * follow up on actions brought up during the meeting
 * create a status email to others 

This is typical of most of the things that you do.  What looks like a
task is really a cluster of smaller tasks.   Leaving out one of these
small tasks could compromise the entire goal of doing the thing in the
first place.

I recommend that you go through this formality once so that you can
see what is involved in your typical work day.  Make a list of at
least ten large tasks.  Then explode each of these tasks into at least
five subtasks that were required to get the job done.

The next step is to understand the total effort that is required by
the small tasks.  Gather together all of the small tasks that are
similar.  Then try to find the biggest amount of total time spent by
quantifying them.  You should have around fifty small tasks to work with.

If your typical day involves spending twenty minutes looking for your
car keys or someone's email address, then start there.  Look for tasks
that consume time but don't produce value.
