* Automate Your World *                 -*-muse-*-

How to make computers simplify your life.
by Mark Seaman


**4. Create Commands for Everything You Do**

Commands are extremely powerful because they allow you to express your
specific intent.  In the ideal world you would have a one word command
that you could type to do each of your recurring tasks.

Sure, you could go to your Start Menu and select your favorite web
browser.  Then do to the "Favorites" and choose your bank's web site
from a list.  But wouldn't it be easier to type 'bank'.

The problem is, the series of steps about how to do something is never
fully encapsulated.  It is better to express the desired result then
have to remember all of the steps along the way.

Graphical User Interfaces are wonderful for certain kinds of tasks.
They allow a first time user to click through the menus in order to
see what the program does.  A novice user with no training can
experiment and discover.

These same features can be a disadvantage for experienced users. All
of the window structure can be very distracting.  You have scroll
bars, tool bars, menus, menu bars, tabs, widgets, and window panes,
all crying, "Click ME!"

It is easy to spend minutes clicking around in a program trying to remember
what you started to do.  Graphical user interfaces are optimized for
ease of learning not for ease of use.

There are probably twenty to fifty things that you use a computer
for.  This means that you should have that many commands that take you
right to the context that you need to get your result.

Once you get to the right context it is time to supply the essential
human ingredient. This is decision making.  People are execellent at
knowing what the desired results should be. Unfortunately, when humans
use computers they spend a lot of time trying to get to the right
context to make the decisions.

Any action that you do more than ten times a day should be automated.
If the result takes four actions then make it take one.  Spending five
minutes automating frequent tasks will save you time.  But there is
far more at stake.

Automation protects your mind share.  Extra action that take several
seconds can actually break your concentration.  If you are opening and
closing windows then you can easily become distracted by that thing
over there.  You may never actually get to where you started to go.

Mental work requires concentration and computers are notorious for
distracting.  Consider adopting practices that protect your focus.
These will allow you to complete task quicker and with lower stress.
