* Automate Your World *                 -*-muse-*-

How to make computers simplify your life.
 by Mark Seaman


**2. Easy Computer Setup**

Imagine what it would be like if you could set up a new computer for
$400 and invest two hours to get it fully configured. It is entirely
possible.  We will walk through the steps to show you how.

If it is easy to set up one computer, then it is possible to setup
many computers.  I have five different computers that I use daily.
Each computer has different physical characteristics that make it
useful for certain tasks.

I use the following:

  *  Desktop - when in my home office
  *  Laptop - when I work at client sites
  *  Netbook - when I sit on the couch to write
  *  iPad - for reading books
  *  Smart Phone - for looking up things on the internet

It is much more effective to use multiple computers for specialized
tasks then it is to use one computer for everything.  I don't want to
carry my netbook with me into the grocery store when a smart phone
could work for that.  I also don't want to use my laptop in my office
when I could use a large monitor instead.

Setting a system with multiple computers requires three things: Low
cost computer, Easy computer setup, and Ability to mangage files
across computers.

Low cost computers are a reality.  A year ago I bought a computer for
my home server.  It costs $200 from Best Buy (Acer Inspire).  I
installed open source software so that the total cost of the computer
was the cost of the hardware.  It is very practical to buy low cost
hardware with enough capability to do specific jobs.

I regularly troll for the standard prices of laptops and desktops.
The standard price of low-end laptops is $450 and desktops can be had
for $350.  Add standard open-source software for free, and you end up
with an entire computer system costing less than $500.

You could buy a computer system for $1000, but why not get two.  Spend
$1100 and get a netbook too.  Different computer can be used for
different uses.  Each computer gete assigned to tasks that make the
most sense for its physical characteristics.

This bring us to the next issue.  For muliple computers to make sense
there needs to be an efficient way to fully configure and manage them.

Your time is far more valuable than your money spent.  It does no good
to buy a $300 computer only to spend $1000 worth of your time trying
to get it properly set up.

This guide will show you ways to set up and manage computer systems
that are simple and quick.  The first time through the process you can
expect to spend several hours.  But after that, you will be able to
quickly clone new computers each time you get one.

The next area of concern is how to share your files across many
computers.  There are several very easy ways to make your files
accessible from many computers.  There are several major issue that
you need to address that we will explore in detail.
