* Automate Your World *                 -*-muse-*-

How to make computers simplify your life.
 by Mark Seaman

**1. Create a Habit of Automating**

Are you tired of having stacks of paper scattered around your office?
Do you hate losing bills or forgetting appointments?  These thing
should never happen but they do.

This guide will show you how to prevent your precious time from being
stolen. Stop trying to repair situations that could have been
prevented.  Instead build system that take care of all your mental
baggage.  Unload your mind so that it can be used for more human
things.

Many of us feel "behind the eight-ball".  We know that we need to get
organized but are unsure where to start.  This guide will point you in
specific directions and give you step-by-step details of how to build
your own systems.

This is a book about how to use computers to organize your mental
stuff. Many of these principles also apply to how to organize physical
stuff as well.  My experience has been that adopting good practices
for organizing my information, also causes me to look at my physical
world through a different lens.

In the internet world there are plenty of great tools to implement
everything you  need.  Most of these tools are free (or etremely
inexpensive). Avoid tools that cost over $50.  There is no need.

I'll show you where to look and how to select the worlds best tools
for getting you organized.  By the time you are done reading this book
you will be well on your way to setting up a system that works for
you.

Like any change, you get out of it what you put in.  Maybe you are at
a point where you are just curious enough to read a book but don't
want to go any further.  That's OK.  You will get a few ideas that may
inspire other changes down the road.

On the other hand, if you are ready to embrace the ideas presented
here you life may look very different a year from now.  Try this
excercise.  Make a list of every time that something has gotten
confused due to lost information.  Estimate the cost of not being able
to remember or find something critical.

If your computer has ever crashed, or been infected, or you have lost
files, then you can probably still feel the pain.  Building robust
systems seems unimportant until you really need them.  But it is too
late at that point.

I believe that it is not too soon to learn new computer skills.  These
will protect you from disasters.  More importantly, your overall life
will be smooother.

You will master the following core competencies:

  * Quickly setup and maintain a computer
  * Take advantage of free software
  * Share all files across all your computers
  * Manage photos, music, and junk in a way that makes sense
  * Eliminate confusion about where the most recent file is
  * Manage your life with two pieces of paper
  * Capture every idea that comes to you
  * Manage your email with maximum effectiveness
  * Publish your web site in five seconds
  * Organize your own view of the internet
