* Automate Your World *                 -*-muse-*-

How to make computers simplify your life.
 by Mark Seaman


**3. Ready, Set, Synchronize!**

Most people these days are using multiple computers.  Whether it is
home and work, or different types of computers for different types of
tasks.  This creates some new problems that must be solved.

You want to be able to access the same files from multiple computers.
Once you can access them, you want to modify them. The main problem is
that is difficult to know which is the most recent version of the same
file.

There are two main ways to solve this problem:
    1. You access the same physical file from each computer
    2. You modify the file and synchronize it with the other computers

Each of these primary solutions has different advantages and
limitations.  Using the same exact file eliminates any questions about
the version of the file.  There is only one file.  

But this technique constrains you to having all of the computers
connected to the file server at all times.  This is not very practical
in the internet/mobile device world that we have today.

The second alternative is to create a method for synchronizing all of
the files from whatever computer was used to modify them to all of the
others where they can be modified.  This solution also creates some
new challenges for us.

There are several free (or in-expensive) tools that perform this job
nicely.  On Windows I recommend Sync Back by Two Bright Sparks.  For a
web tool use "DropBox.com".  On Linux use rsync.  All three of these
tools let you copy the most recent copy from any computer to the rest.

The key problem that remains to be solved is how to handle deleted
files.  Typically it is very useful to setup your sync tool so that it
does not prompt you for what to do with files.  In general it is
better to have tools that run periodically in the background.

When a file is deleted it reappears automatically from another
computer.  I have found that the best way to resolve this issue is to
have a script that lists specific files that have been deleted.  This
script keeps removing the deleted files each time it sees them.
Eventually the file is completely purged from all the computers.

The reason that I like this solution is that you can fully automate
it. When you remove the file you add it to the 'prune' script. Every time
after that, the file is automatically removed.  Later on you may not
remember which files you intended to delete and which ones you wish to
retain.
