* Automation Becomes Transparent *                 -*-muse-*-

A task is automatic when you can't see it anymore. Think about
learning to drive.  There was a time when you had to consciously think
about pushing the brake or the gas. This produced a lot of stess,
because the consequences of doing the wrong thing were enormous.

Many people use their computers in a very conscious way.  They think
about each and every step to do.  After spending thousands of hours on
a computer it is still possible to be consciously thinking about how
to repeat the steps that lead to a result, rather than the goal
itself.

Do you every get a bad feeling of deja vu, all over again?  Do you
ever feel in a position to push the red button every 118 seconds
for no apparent reason?  Refuse to do this any longer.  Make your
computer do it for you.

This sense of repeditive, redundancy is an indicator that something
needs to change.  Now it is time to think creatively.  If your job
forces you to write TPS reports every Tuesday, then make a script that
gathers the data and writes the report.  Every Tuesday it wakes up and
reads your unique data and puts it into the form that everyone else
likes and sends it to the correct people.

This system will make you the hero of your workgroup.  Share it with
others. Your group will be the only one with 100% compliance on TPS
reports.  Instead of writing an invoice manually, automate it from the
unique data that you have.  Refuse to do repetetive tasks any longer.

Redundancy is in the eye of the beholder.  If you feel like something
is redundant then it is.  If it feels painful then it is.  The
question is what you will do with that pain.  

Imagine a genie that could grant three wishes.  Anything can be
automated.  What will it be?  How will you spend your silver bullet?
What three changes would make your life substantially better?  How can
you use automation to fix your core concerns?

These questions are worth wrestling with.  The answers will put you on
a new path.

