* Becoming a Master Programmer * 

Mastery is never fully achieved.  But you can attain levels of
proficiency where others recognize that your are truly a master.
Mastery comes from learning and applying best practices.

It requires hard work and focus to understand things at a fundamental
level.  Basic competence is naturally gained with time.  But true
mastery takes commitment.

Mastery is its own objective.  We seek to operate at a level of near
perfection.  There is tremendous joy creating something that is
powerful, simple, elegant, and useful.  This is absolute delight in
knowing that no one else could have created the same result any more
efficiently.

This book is written for programmers that want to "up their game". It
describes how to become a software craftsman.  It will give you a
summary of core competencies and best practices that you must develop.

This book is not for the skeptic that needs proof of each best
practice.  There are plenty of resources available for that.  This
book is about what works in the real world.  It is a catalog of key
ideas that you adopt if you want to become a master programmer.

While the book is written for programmers the principles discussed
apply in many fields.  Furthermore, if you desire to be a software
craftsman you need to be concerned with much more that code.

I have been a professional software developer for over thirty years.
During that time I have been on over fifty software projects.  Each
project varies somewhat, but they are astoundingly similar in many
ways.

The important aspects that make master programmers are not tied to
technology.  They are personal characteristics that developers take
with them from project to project.

In order to achieve maximum results you need a few high quality
people.  A team of five master programmers can easily outpace a random
team of fifty.

If you learn and apply these principles, you will prosper in any job
you have.  You will add enormous value to any organization you work
for.  And most importantly, you will know that you are a master at
what you do.

